Types of Bearings: 
Contact / Plain: Plain bearings bushings or sleeve bearings, are usually cylindrical in shape and contain no moving parts. Standard configurations include cylindrical bearings for radial loads, flanged bearings for radial and light axial loads, thrust washers and flanged thrust washers for heavy axial loads and sliding plates of various shapes. Contact bearings are utilize balls or cylindrical rollers. These elements are contained with a bearing rings, where they facilitate motion with little resistance to sliding. Ball bearings, the most common type of contact bearings, can accommodate both radial and axial loads. 
 
Brush: Brush bearings are a mechanical element used to reduce friction between rotating shafts and stationary support members. Typically, a bushing relies on soft metal or plastic and an oil film to support the rotating shaft on the hardened shaft journal. Brush bearings are used in machinery with rotating or sliding shafts, to improve efficiency and reduce the vibrations and noise made by the machine. Bushings can be used for drilling operations, hydraulic external gear pumps and motors. 

Two Piece: Two-piece bearings are used in industrial machinery where larger diameters are required, such as crankshaft bearings. They are made of two parts called shells, which are kept in place using different mechanisms. The button stop is screwed to the housing, while the dowel pin keys the two shells together. Another less common method uses a dowel pin that keys the shell to the housing through a hole or slot in the shell. 

Jewel: A jewel bearing is a plain type of bearing in which a metal spindle turns in a jewel-lines pivot hole. The hole is typically shaped like a torus and is slightly larger than the shaft diameter. The jewels are typically made from the mineral corundum, usually synthetic sapphire or ruby. Jewel bearings can be found in mechanical watches, where their low and predictable friction improves watch accuracy as well as improving bearing life. Manufacturer traditionally listed the number of jewels prominently on the watch face or back, as an advertising point. 

Ball: The ball bearing is a type of rolling element bearing that serves three main functions while it facilitates motion, it carries loads, reduces friction and positions moving machine parts. This bearing uses balls to separate two bearing rings, to reduce surface contact and friction across moving planes. An example of where ball bearings can be used are in electrical motors where the shaft is free to rotate but the motor housing is not, ball bearings are used to connect the shaft to the motor housing. 
Spherical & Tapered:  Spherical roller bearings offer an unequalled combination of high load capacity, high tolerance to shock loads, and self-aligning ability, but they are speed limited. Accordingly, they are used in vibrators, shakers, conveyors, speed reducers, transmissions, and other heavy machinery. Tapered bearing is ideal for guides that have to undergo extreme loads. It is also found in applications where radial loads are important and rotational speeds are high. Tapered roller bearings are essential in sectors such as agriculture, construction, mining, engines and propellers. 

Non-Contact: Non-contact bearings do not touch the inner ring, they do feature a thin lip that rests adjacent to it. This design provides protection against contaminants and leakage, but not to the same degree as a contact seal. 
Magnetic: Magnetic bearings are used to support objects using magnetic forces. Some magnetic bearings provide a full non-contact support of an object, whereas others provide only a partial support working together with more conventional mechanical bearings. Magnetic bearings are usually found in industrial machines such as pumps, compressors, turbines and generators. These bearings are usually more efficient, quieter and do not require lubrication. Magnetic bearings can also be used to support maglev trains for transportation. 
Fluid: Fluid bearings are useful and necessary in the basic rotating machinery used in industry. They allow: Optimization of impedance to the rotor for stability, passage of critical speed and normal function with vibrations and force transmitted to low-amplitude bearings. Fluid bearings are used in hydroelectric plants to support turbines and generators weighing hundreds of tons. They are also used in very heavy machinery, such as marine propeller shafts.
